I'm a bad guy sometimes and I use and I
did a lot of bad things I wanted to be
forgiven you know I want to change my
line I want to live a different life now
I don't wanna live I wanna live my sober
life I don't want to die
I'm on the verge of dying because I'm a
vicious alcoholic and I've been I've
been um I haven't drink up took drugs in
six days and for me that's a miracle
I've been lying to everybody else I
think I was sober but I'm not Mike first
of all we're here in Verona where do you
and I find vegan food around here
well lift an arm you have to bring it
with you you know of course when you
know becoming a vegan you have to bring
feet you don't have to travel with your
fuilcré that's the problem then I gotta
have food in most country they're not
gonna I stocked up on Clif bars and
fruit at the at the gas station so like
for me YouTube is it is really a selfish
endeavor for me I am I get a lot from
doing it and I love he like I do love
hearing other people's opinions and
whatnot that's one of the main reasons
why I'm doing it but to say that I'm
doing this because I'm trying to spread
some greater message or whatever or this
is ultimately gonna be so beneficial for
the animals like I don't know it's it's
it's it is quite selfish for me I think
if people were honest with themselves a
lot of people would say that it is
selfish for them as well right but for
me I expressed that soldiers where I say
like I want to make friends that's a
form of self you know it's not evil but
I say no I want to have a circle of
friends because I know what it's like to
leave Cambodia and have no friends with
me it's not because I'm a jerk it's
because I left Cambodia so I lost
everything I had that way in terms of
friendship but that is that is selfish
and that's that's been a source of
conflict do you mean other youtubers
everywhere it's like where I've had to
say people no look I'm just trying to
make friends I'm trying to make friends
we're gonna last the rest of my life and
you know friends based on something
meaningful you have in common
so you sir involved in music are you or
you musician you sing or do you do sing
on those lines I'm just asking because
you mentioned miss pigtail oh no do DJ
turntables every Saturday night DJ
no no I'm just a consumer of music I
once I once DJ here in China I could do
it again probably what it would probably
do gigs a DJ in Thailand when we go it's
not me what's your what's your dj name
I guess it's got to be a ballast yell
now I guess there's no points you have
I've got a trade on the little bit of
fame of God to do gigs no nobody was
just because of the knowledge I have of
rap music it was the only reason I DJ
that was a big hit though and look at
the Green Party like I'm just gonna
mention the green part yeah I was up
this like party last night and you know
we're talking I mean we're getting as
political as you're gonna get on a
Friday night before you go out but you
know this one girl she says oh I really
support the Green Party and she's vegan
right and I just like I blurt out like I
cannot stand the Green Party how could
you support the green pretty alright you
know I watched this debate you know I
watch them MacLaine's debate and whatnot
and I don't even remember her name yo
who's the leader of the Green Party I
hate I should know her name - because
she's out by me she's out in in Victoria
of Vancouver right she's she's elected
out with me but am I forgetting I've
sent her email when I forgot her name
but yeah going I've met her actually
being I met her like for the first time
like 15 years ago so I still don't
remember her name but yes the lady from
the Green Party yeah yeah so I'm just
like watching this debate and I don't
know I just found it very well I didn't
watch them acclaims debate to begin with
no but just mentioned a long time ago I
think you haven't seen on my youtube
channel I did make videos drawing
attention to and and and hating on the
Green Party because their position on
agriculture is they want the government
to give more subsidies to meat and dairy
agriculture and like especially dairy
we're like we we support Canada's milk
farmers therefore vote for the Green
Party
unlike the Liberals are the
Conservatives like we really want to
give more
money to Canada's dairy industry of
surreal but you know meat also both meat
and dairy that's the Green Party's
position and they shamelessly
shamelessly flog that there they're
proud of their position on it hey no use
no but you you take what were you gonna
say you hate on the Green Party in your
own terms don't let me put words in your
mouth yeah well I mean just like a
blatant like just disregard lately they
never seem to ever mention animal
agriculture is the fact that they don't
even like in terms of like eradicating
it like have no interest in that yeah
that's funny just kind of something
unrelated just the claims debate that I
don't know I don't know when it was like
November or something people have time
to talk about Canadian politics I was
reading all these articles about how
it's like American politics in
comparison is just like this the circus
it's this show it's entertainment which
I suppose it is but you know I'm
watching this debate on TV and it's just
like Trudeau's response to Harper is
just nobody believes you Harper these
are literally his rebuttals and I'm just
watching this and I'm how is this any
better than what's going on in America
right now how was that and in any way
shape or form like an intelligent
response just constantly over talking
over Harper and telling them that he's a
liar no one believes him he's just
appealing to people blindly hate Harper
because anyone who's intelligent would
notice that that's just really nique I
was that at all a good argument so I
guess I just find the political
landscape in general from what I see on
media to be very that's that's our
that's our national pastime in Canada is
pretending we're better than the
Americans and there are so there are so
many issues on which it's really a huge
stumbling block like you try to talk to
white Canadians about First Nations and
it's really very often the first thing
they say to you is oh but at least we're
better than the Americans on that and
you you have to like I've had situations
where you just blank the person it's
like have you visited a Navajo
Reservation I are you actually have you
actually compared how residential
schools worked for the Navajo versus the
Cree
but are you actually making the claim
because in my honest opinion you know I
studied I really only studied the
Canadian side of it but I have I have
done some brief comparison we look at
the Americans I think the Americans have
been better today - better - they're
still existing indigenous people the
Canadians we're really just toying with
the most recent 100 years and you know
you can come down to specific policies
and you can talk about it but on so many
issues and you know I've seen that with
the meat production where the only thing
Canadians have to say to you as well
it's a problem but at least we're better
than the Americans on ecology what have
you this is the big distorting bias that
comes into it but the other is just the
left versus right factionalism and in
Canada within my lifetime the left-wing
vs. right that right-wing thing has been
you know really quite meaningless
everyone wants lower taxes okay this is
not really not really a debate worth
having but you know I saw really two
different green parties in Canada Green
Party of Ontario and when I was in
Ontario basically the federal Green
Party also exists there the the National
Green Party really is the Green Party of
Ontario they don't have a separate
existence and then in Saskatchewan I got
to see a really interesting drama play
out with with the Green Party there but
in terms I mean the Green Party in both
places
it's like veganism like what we were
saying with Venus before they had really
recruited people who used to be
cult members either of a communist cult
or of a Hindu cult or of some other kind
of cult but you got a lot of extreme
left wingers and then if the party did
anything that wasn't anti-capitalist
enough by their definition they would
stand up and quit or cause a commotion
or what have you so you got a situation
where really it's like you're not acting
as a Green Party you're acting as a
crypto Communist Party with the kinda
layer of green paint over it and you
can't you can't do any of the pragmatic
things that really create respect and
constituency for a small party in Canada
over time you know there is a role for
that and I'll just mention that
proponent I know this will change the
topic or keep the same but you know in
in Saskatchewan one of the crucial
events because they had over five years
say they were doing some small
activism that involved negotiation with
the government advocacy advocacy I guess
you'd say and one of their members who
is diagnosed with a serious mental
disorder I forget which one I may not
have known I forgot what it was
schizophrenia but it was something at
that level
but a to all accounts he was a nice guy
and he really did put in a lot of time
volunteering for the Green Party he had
a psychotic episode at Parliament inside
the Parliament building and he he took
off all his clothes and I assume was you
know nattering incoherently would have
you know yet disassociated episode we he
didn't know where he was and what have
you but he wasn't he wasn't trying to
rape someone or anything he just he got
naked for no reason
and he was banned from the Parliament
building and there was a very real
question of whether or not he be charged
with a crime and I don't know ten years
of hard work and the Green Party went to
waste because of one unreliable person
and you know I've had recently with in
patreon I think you're not you're not a
member of my patreon group right I've
had I've had discussions with that
because you know I talked to some of the
people white pariah she's a big advocate
for mental health mental illness issues
would have you and I am honest and
saying to people know when you put
together a real political organization
with real responsibilities and real
consequences for your actions and money
you know fundraising which I've just
done I raised six thousand five hundred
dollars in one day it's ridiculous but
I've now done fundraising for veganism
one unreliable person again to all
accounts he was a nice guy people said
he was a really caring nice guy but he's
unreliable one bad person does discredit
your movement that's another reason why
I find it kind of a bit of a bad joke
like oh let's let's all beat up on
sorcerer Morava or something for
discrediting veganism I'm interested in
talking about you know the real problems
of discrediting veganism this is only
one type or one issue but that also
leads us to thinking about politics and
friendship and cooperation in a very
different way short term and long term
when you recognize the fragility of that
and how much you need from the people
you cooperate with yeah well I mean
Sasha is certainly just one of many
who's doing the exact same thing so you
know just the amount of like heat she's
getting you know I found it a bit
ridiculous because this guy it was just
happy
stance that that she just happened to do
a video on him and he just happened to
see it or whatever I don't even know I
don't really care but like it could have
been any big youtuber like a really big
one who decides to choose any like
radical vegan on YouTube to them exposed
right it wasn't just sorta it is kind of
like a problem with YouTube in generals
I thought the response that she got from
all these vegans it was kind of like you
said kind of like missing the nail right
like no one was really talking like I
guess some people were but I thought she
got a little bit too much hate when
she's just doing what she's been taught
to do by write freely essentially look I
mean I didn't know you were Canadian
until like a couple days before this
conversation like when we were arranging
to talk on skype oh you're in Canada but
I mean this is also the by a sense of it
like people come on YouTube and say oh
you should stop messing around you
should be a real activist like me you
should do what I'm doing because that's
real activism and I you know I'm unusual
in many ways on YouTube but one of the
ways in which I'm unusual is that in the
one hand I do not portray what I'm doing
now is real activism on the other hand I
do not tell other people to do what I do
like I don't think we need another ten
people doing what I do on YouTube and if
they do you know they can't reach your
bigger audience than I do
I said recent like I think it's
wonderful that video I had talking to
the lawyer in Washington DC about you
know getting political organized 2,000
people watch that it's a huge number to
me you know it's never gonna reach a
reach a mass audience of people who are
playing this YouTube game if you want to
talk about legit activism take a look at
the channels that are doing what you do
activism and you'll realize okay maybe
500 people let's review maybe maybe I'll
take you years to build up an audience
of 500 people cuz that's the other for
you but on the other hand what I am
doing is actively trying to organize
real activism for the future and I
especially I mean this is why I'm
totally biased and prejudice oh you're
Canadian
it's pathetic but legally speaking so
you know like Maude vegan is also in
Canada and is not not insane as far as I
know you know she seems you know we've
talked and so on
you know I've said you were openly like
look um it wouldn't matter if I hated
you you don't want to be a best friend
because I if you want to actually create
a legal foundation in Canada have a
legally registered charity if you want
to do lobbying and again lobbying on
education policy you can get big results
with a very small amount of time and
money but this is what I say like I in
some ways I'm the least Canadian person
in the world
I'm obvious I'm not a nationalist and so
much of my adult life has been in
Cambodia Laos Thailand China Taiwan it's
been outside of Canada but the Canadian
passport is the only passport of God so
whether it's you or Maude vegan or the
light twins I was delighted I I didn't
know those guys had a political bone in
their body
tons of people thanked me they say hey
you know the light twins when they did
that interview with you that's the first
time I knew those guys were really
motivated about political you know they
are but like great you know so yeah yeah
so in terms of putting together a
foundation force for something in some
point in Canada long term this is
another inequality I if you are the same
person but you're an American citizen
living in California I'm a lot less
interested because legally I need to I
need to work with other Canadians right
you know I'm just about the yeah
improving the education of Buddhism
education system or whatnot I see I hear
that and that it is quite optimistic but
I'm thinking of the reform I get
although I guess this would be
optimistic as well like the reform that
you had in Ontario about sex education
I'm sure you must have heard about it it
was like a big story how people were
getting upset that we're gonna start in
the first grade and teach first graders
that about gender or whatever um I think
that is like in particularly that's like
that's great like that gives me a lot of
hope because like you know sex education
that's a very sensitive topic subject
right you know Buddhism like you said
like yeah we a lot of people don't
really know anything about it they don't
really have any emotional reaction
towards it so I just hear like the sex
ed reform that occurred here in Ontario
and you know people were like
complaining about it of course but it
still it happened alright and but I mean
I think the contrast England is also
significant because in England you know
technically it's it's not a secular
country that you know the angle
Church is part of the government and the
government supports the Anglican Church
so you get a different kind of
opposition yeah it's just in England if
nobody takes the Anglican Church
seriously
but the anglich they sit in Parliament
they sit in the House of Lords yeah you
get a different of resistance because in
England they still really have an elite
who are who are religious in a way that
almost nobody in Canada is I think our
elite is less religious than the poor I
think in Canada you know if you hang out
with rich hang out with rich people who
go to cottages and snort cocaine snort
cocaine and do waterskiing you know rich
people again don't believe in much
anymore um anyway this is you see how
prejudiced I am against Canadian culture
by I'm stuck with it it's my only
fast-forward I have to do vegan activism
in Canada I can't I can't do it anywhere
else yeah I'm gonna pretend we're a tony
mode education in reform
right right right but you know what the
other thing is so you know like when I
was in Germany this time the German
language in every language figuring out
if something is vegan or not is a
different struggle but they had made
reforms relatively recently because I
can remember being in Germany a number
of years ago and then now and I'm one of
the simple reforms they made was having
words like egg egg and milk in bold
you know bold font even when it's in the
middle of a compound word because in
German you can have a long word and in
the middle there are two letters II I I
and it really means egg so it's some
kind of ingredient derived from egg
protein it's a long you know desiccated
egg powder something or another but in
there there's I which is their word for
egg and they put that in bold and makes
a huge difference it may not sound
political but really it is and by
contrast they have other words where the
word egg appears but it actually doesn't
mean egg so again this is a difference
from English if something says egg it
means egg and then it's not in bold yeah
so like they're their word for protein
is literally egg white but it doesn't
mean egg white it just means protein so
you know
kinds of struggles you know Canada I
don't do it today do it someday when you
have a really long attention span but on
any of these issues if you look up our
debates in the Senate the Hansard tends
to be in the Senate you get these
debates not in the not in the normal
Parliament nobody knows what they're
talking about you know they don't have a
great depth of expertise and you know
passionate well-informed over search
people and then when you get to City
Hall you know is Senate is the highest
level you look through the answer to see
all if any of these issues are being
discussed in government it's just not
the case that they're inundated with you
know actionable proposals for how to
make the world a better place from
people who know their stuff and can back
it up and what-have-you and that's true
you know across the board Canadian
Senate I remember looking up a debate
about what Canada's policy in Myanmar
was and all these people in Canadian
government none of them know as much
about the politics of Myanmar as I do
I'm not the world's greatest expert on
Myanmar
but you know you're reading that it's
depressing so you know those those
discussions that go on again whether
it's about nutrition education there's
so many headings under which veganism
can be a struggle I think you know
you're gonna find that there's not that
much resistance the other side there's
there's my optimistic statement for the
day you know and he also remember me
Canada is not is not the United States
this stereotype of having enormous
corporations influencing government in
this stuff we don't have those
corporations in Canada in Ontario the
most powerful corporation when I was
there controlling the government was Dom
Tarr great evil name sounds like a
villain from a comic Dom Tarr you know
Dom Tarr is a pulp and paper company and
I was you know in terms of my ecology I
was really interested in trying to get
involved with more habitat conservation
forests tree type stuff then you're
going up against Tom Tarr
you know they own the government that's
the corporation's government but you
know we we don't have the headquarters
for Monsanto or these other great you
know they kind of villain and presumed
villains that oppose veganism so in some
ways you know and again for my life I
don't know it's possible like the whole
where
my life will be in Canada it's possible
and it's also possible I'll be living in
Myanmar or Hong Kong or you know
somewhere else you know pretty soon
after I finished that diploma because
I'm gonna have to make I'm gonna have to
make hard decisions so yeah okay great
first conversation with you by the way I
feel I feel like we're old friends
yeah yeah hopefully I mean if you didn't
find anything worthy for your podcast
that's cool it was nice talking to you
Israel tell you I'm happy to promote you
on my channel to my small you know
audience of extremely cynical and
sophisticated vegans it's a small
audience but it's a good audience you
know to me those the viewers you want
you want to be a Bella see you see how
viewers coming over but no for me as
I've just been saying it's it's not
really about that long term something
I've said sorry I said this recently to
to cheetah
you know cheetahs never been to cold we
did sorry she is a college student now
but in the past you never went to
college I said to cheetah look when you
graduate from college like a normal
college student like you or something
III asked people when you graduate from
college do you have 50 friends if you
say yes you're lying you're lying to me
you're like yourself well you might have
50 Facebook friends but nobody at the
end of college has 50 friends and then
how many of them do you do you know
really cling on see the wonderful thing
about what we're doing on YouTube you
could really have 50 friends like 50
meaningful friends and the same sense
like I really do have a meaningful
friendship with Charles with the vegan
cheetah you know it's not it's not just
about fame or money or something
and you know if I can if I can really
have a network of if I have five people
like that in my life it's wonderful but
if you have 50 you know there's there's
real strength in numbers and so on and
we just saw that from light from my
rather pathetic position I raised six
thousand five hundred dollars in one day
yeah that was fantastic that was amazing
right and it's not unprecedented you
know Aaron Janis did something similar
when she raised money to help one zebra
one zebra and one donkey she reached out
to reviewers in an avalanche of
I forget it was 48 hours or what but she
reached it right away so that's a big
contrast to other forms of humanitarian
work activism or what have you and that
really could be the basis for doing
something very positive long term in the
future I certainly hope so I mean like I
have I haven't mentioned this either but
like my both my parents are vegan
actually what whoa oh okay oh wow okay
sorry cuz I thought you're gonna tell me
you were born vegan or something all
right Jesus okay that changes my opinion
of you okay Wow so you converted your
parents unbelievable but look I reminds
me I had fan mail recently people hate
me for using for a fan mail but what the
fight Sammy boy I had fan mail from a
guy who was a medical doctor and he was
writing to me saying the he felt
powerless and he couldn't make it so
he's a medical doctor who's vegan I
think he I think he just recently
started becoming vegan so he's not yet
Harper somebody you know he's already in
principle believes in veganism and you
know he was saying the same way so many
youtubers and tears do that he feels so
power whatsoever the world I send people
I'll send you nail send you got my
resume my CV you know but I have to
write back to those people and it's not
false humility and it's not bragging but
a lot of people like assume I'm some
kind of successful academic and I've
never been an academic I'm never gonna
be and it's like no look I may be
working at Starbucks in the future and
if so like you'll see it on my youtube
channel like I'll talk about it I'll
talk about it like I'm not it's not
going to be a secret if I'm working in
Starbucks but it's like no like like I'm
not saying this to insult you but look
like here's my CV here's the reality of
my work experience in my background I
understand that you feel powerless but
the fact that you're a medical doctor
the fact that you have a home
like you actually have advantages over
me that you you may be blind to you may
not be seeing you know I talk to other
people they're an architect or whatever
I mean anything just you have a steady
job you can make a difference so this
site I talked about relatively once I'm
going my channel the stuff about direct
action everywhere effective activism
protests you can make a difference and I
guarantee there's a better way for you
to make a difference than standing on
the street and screaming at strangers I
guarantee it you know what I mean so
yeah whether you're
medical doctor and architects or if you
just have a steady job that really
provides you with it with a home and
stability as a base of operations
different people can contribute in
different ways you know I've got a lot
of illustrators and graphic designers
visual artists who are my fans
you work fan whatever my viewers you
know and and they really can contribute
to a project and a different way from
somebody else before I asked you if you
were if you were in music through
musician or a singer the reason I'm
asking is because that again you can you
can get you in a different way or what
have you you know and I know I know
people some people think I hate bikini
models or something I'm actually fine
with that too I think some people are
bikini models and their way to
contribute to vegan activism probably is
through bikini modeling just I'm against
the delusion that everyone should be
able but different people can contribute
different ways and medical doctors and
so on these are examples really taken
seriously medical doctors research
scientists you know all these people
have been reaching out to and trying to
talk to ya real real potential some
calls in them but help obviously that
changes your Christmas plans the fact
that your parents are vegan that's you
know that's reliable for you so that's
great yeah like I mentioned like how my
my family my father actually hates
tradition religious look that's
wonderful because I mean you know I
remember I made a joke on the internet
this is before I had a youtube channel
so it's just a joke in writing on the
internet that got a ton of thumb thumbs
up and shares and likes and M reactions
because somebody wrote a question the
internet asking like well like on the
official day I decide to become vegan
because they decided whatever like July
1st they were going to become you know
forever loose you know what do you
actually do like what like you know what
and my reply was a citizen lines of well
it's traditional to have a screaming
fight with your parents that ends with
one side of the other saying I don't
even know who you are anymore at the top
of your voice then walking then walking
out of the room and slamming the door
I made this joke but so many people
related to it so many people were
already back using yeah that's you know
their experience or have you so you know
obviously any anything positive or even
just neutral from your parents you know
that's with their parents vegetarian and
then she got me to go vegetarian and
then I wanna begin and make her go vegan
and then my dad went vegan afterwards
but so I didn't necessarily have that
experience simply because my mom was
already a vegetarian and I don't know
when curry doesn't generally speaking
you know very very chill
I suppose I consider myself very
fortunate and that burns but I never had
that family feud right okay look I say
so this is midnight where you are and
it's new where I am so I got to go and
get real food I told you I have no
kitchen here so I have to add
restaurants but wonderful talking to you
and I can say the same thing I said
before I hope I still know you five
years now help with something ten years
from now and because you're Canadian
even if I hated you I would really
really be trying to tell this friendship
because I think we can cooperate
politically in the future and what have
you but whatever the future holds you
know stay in touch yeah absolutely I
think you wonderful great to meet you